To get started with setting up our project,
I've gone ahead and opened up a browser and gone to start.spring.io,
and it pulls up this page.
We're going to start off by first selecting the type of project.
We want a Maven project, and the language we're going to choose is Java.
And the current release of Spring Boot is 2.2.4, which I have chosen here.
And then I'm going to change the project metadata
to the group of com.pluralsight.
And the demo name, I'm going to change that artifact to now be conference,
since we're building a conference app,
as we saw in that earlier demo in the previous module.
I'm going to name the artifact conference,
and this has some other things that will change in the pom for us by doing so.
I'm going to select to drop down those options.
You'll see the name again.
Should be the same as the artifact.
We can leave the description the same,
or if you want to put something more significant there,
I'm fine with that.
The reason,
though, that mainly I chose to expand the options is to make
sure that the packaging type is currently Jar.
I'm going to show you what happens when we change that to a War later.
But I want to specifically choose Java 11.
So you'll notice that they have versions 13, 11, and 8 in here.
We want to choose 11, and as I mentioned in the prerequisites section,
that's because it's the current version that has long‑term support.
Now, before we get too anxious and skip out of here,
we want to go down here to this Search dependencies to add and choose Web,
or search for web, and click the plus sign.
And when you've done this,
you should see it expand over to the right saying Spring Web,
Build Web, including RESTful applications using Spring MVC.
And it includes the bundled or embedded Tomcat container,
which is what we want to start with as well.
Now that we have this in here, let's go ahead and click the Generate,
and it will download that for us,
and we can now go over and expand that in our file space.
When it downloads that,
it'll actually name the ZIP file the same name as what we had called
our artifact in the start.spring.io initializer.
I'm going to double‑click on this and just expand it.
And now we can open up IntelliJ and have it import that project in.
When we first open IntelliJ,
we're presented with this splash screen asking us if
we want to create our project, import it, just open it,
or get it from Version Control.
Since we used start.spring.io,
we want to import our project because it was already created for us.
So let's select Import Project.
You want to choose the home directory of that application.
I store mine underneath dev/workspace/spring‑mvc/conference,
so I'm going to choose conference.
And you'll notice there's the src folder here and the
pom.xml and some Maven command stuff.
Go ahead and choose Open.
And then it will ask us if we want to finish importing that from Eclipse,
Flash Builder, Gradle, or Maven.
We want to choose Maven and click Finish. And it will go
ahead and load up the application.
Now, The first time you do this,
it's going to resolve some dependencies and spend a
minute scanning all those files, indexing them,
bringing them all into your workspace. Behind the scenes it's actually
going out and grabbing everything from the Maven repo.
And you'll see the little progress indicator in the lower‑right portion
of your screen is it goes ahead and does this for you.
It's downloading a bunch of stuff. And if you haven't used Maven
before, it may take it a minute. So now we should have a project
structure in here. And inside of our project structure, we should
have our src/main/java app,
and underneath that it should contain our package structure
and our actual conference application.
We can open it up and see that it's just a basic
configured Spring Boot application.
And then outside of here,
we also have our pom file and we have our resources directory.
Right now there's really nothing contained inside of here.
If we go back to this conference application and right‑click on main,
we can run this application.
It will bring up our build window for us and tell us that it's
building all of our code and everything else,
and then it will fire up the server. And we're up and running now. So
now our actual app is deployed and running on 8080.
Let's pull up our browser and see what it looks like the first time we hit it.
The first time that you pull up your app in a web page,
you're going to get this nice, ugly Whitelabel Error Page,
basically making you think you've done something wrong. And
really what it is, we don't have an index.html page or anything
else configured in our application yet.
So the basic project that gets downloaded and the structure that
gets supplied for your app has no greeting page.
Let's switch back over to our IDE and fix that now so we have at least
something nice to greet us as we go into the app.
We need to do a couple of things to add that index page to our application.
First, let's go over to our src/main/resources/static directory,
right‑click on it, and say New, HTML File. And we can select HTML5 file.
It should already be selected for us.
We'll just go ahead and give it a name of index.html. Click Enter.
This will give us a standard.
page. I'm going to change the title to Index. And inside the body,
I'm just going to add an H1 so that we have a nice big
greeting or hello for us to land on here.
So we can save that. Now the other thing that we need to do is, we
actually need to restart our server, and this seems a little odd. Where
things were all self‑contained in a JAR, that file hasn't been
repackaged up and moved over to the server yet. Once we have deployed
files and have a reference to them,
we can change them without always redeploying them.
But if it's never been deployed to that server, it won't work.
So I'm going to go ahead and click that redeploy button and have it restart
our application for us and switch back over to our browser.
Now let's see what this page looks like when we refresh it.
Hey, we have our Hello, just like we expected it to.
So a quick recap of what we did there.
We went out to start.spring.io and downloaded a bundled‑up Spring Boot
application for us, expanded that to our file server.
Then we went ahead and imported that into our IDE,
deployed it, launched the application,
seeing that it had an error page for us, went back in
under src/main/resources/static,
added our index.html, and then came back to reverify that
it displayed like we thought it should.
Pretty simple, but there are a few steps to do,
and if it's new to you,
it may seem a little overwhelming. And we're going to break that down through the next few examples.